{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf190
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\vieww13040\viewh17920\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Rules for Mutiny\
Overview\
Players take turns flipping over cards trying to match coins to add their booty. The player who is the leader is the Captain and they are in danger from the rest of the crew calling a mutiny. Various traps and treaures are also hidden beneath the cards. The winner is the player who ends the game with the most gold.\
Setup\
Shuffle all the cards together thouroughly. Place the cards face down in seven rows and seven colums for a total of 49 cards. This is the play area, also referred to as the grid. The rest of the cards are set aside in a pile face down. This pile is called the stack. Each player begins with a chest to keep the cards they collect in. Randomly detemine who goes first. \
The Turn\
The player turns over a face-down card. If a coin is revealed the player then flips another face-down card and tries to match it with the first coin. When a match is made that player has another chance to flip a card over and make another match. This is called a chain. The player adds any cards they match to their chest. When a player fails to make a match that stops their chain. Revealed cards that have not been matched are turned back over in the sae position. Then the player ends their turn and the next player begins their turn. At the end of each turn any cards that have been taken from the grid are replaced from the stack.\
When a player reveals a Mutiny card, dud,  or event card that player does what the card requires and then  places that card into a face up pile on the side. That is the is discard pile. Then the player ends their turn. When a gem is revealed that player collects the gem and ends their turn. A player must reveal three Treasure Maps in a row to collect the Maps.  The Maps remain with the player and are not counted until the end of the game.\
Scoring\
All coins and gems are counted in gold. The player with the most gold is the captain. If two or more players are tied then they are both captains.\
Winning\
After the stack is depleted, and all cards have been flipped the game is over. Everyone tallys their gold and the player with the most wins.\
Miscellaneous\
If a player accidentally flips a card over during their turn that counts as their flip. If more than one card is accientally revealed than those cards are replaced from the stack and then the revealed cards are shuffled into the Stack. If a card has instructions that are different than the rules then obey the card. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
Card types\
Treasure- Coins and Gems.	There are three types of coins. Gold, silver and copper. To collect coins you must match them in pairs. After making a match the player has another chance to try and make another match and repeat this process. this is called chaining. Gems do not have to be matched up to collect. When a player reaveal a Gem that player collects the Gem then end their turn.\
Duds- When a player reveals a dud card that breaks their chain and ends their turn. If the dud is a Rock the player leaves the Rock face up in the place it was revealed. The Rock remains there for the rest of the game. \
Mutiny- When a player reveals a Mutiny card the Captain is the target of the Mutiny. If two or more players are tied for gold then the player get to choose who the Mutiny targets. The other captains do not participate in the Mutiny. If a Mutiny is revealed by the captain that Mutiny is ignored and goes to the discard pile.\
Events- When a event card is revealed the player plays the event immediately and then discards the Event card.\
Treasure Map- To collect Treasure Maps players must match 3 Treasure Maps in a row. Treasure Maps cannot be chained. Treasure maps remain with the player until the games end but are not kept in the players chest so cannot be stolen from any event or mutiny card.\
\
\
\
\
Card Catalog\
\
Gold -16\
Silver -36\
Copper -36\
Treasure Map-9\
Gem-5\
Dud-8\
Mutiny-4\
Event-6\
Total= 120 cards\
\
\
Cards values\
\
Coins\
Gold-300\
Silver-200\
Copper-100\
Gems\
Diamond-600\
Ruby-500\
Spphire-400\
Emerald-300\
Pearl-200\
\
coloured paper. Sand / earth colour . \
find paper size for "4 folding slip style"\
}